readme.md, before:

<h1 align="center">
    <img src="https://github.com/bowphp/arts/raw/master/tintin.jpeg" width="100px" style="border-radius: 50px">
    <br/><strong>Tintin</strong>
</h1>

<p align="center">THE VERY SMALL PHP TEMPLATE</p>
<p align="center">
    <a href="https://github.com/bowphp/docs/blog/master/tintin.md" title="docs"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-read%20docs-blue.svg?style=flat-square"/></a>
    <a href="https://packagist.org/packages/bowphp/tintin" title="version"><img src="https://img.shields.io/packagist/v/bowphp/tintin.svg?style=flat-square"/></a>
    <a href="https://github.com/bowphp/tintin/blob/master/LICENSE" title="license"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/license/mashape/apistatus.svg?style=flat-square"/></a>
    <a href="https://travis-ci.org/bowphp/tintin" title="Travis branch"><img src="https://img.shields.io/travis/bowphp/tintin/master.svg?style=flat-square"/></a>
</p>

It's a very simplicity php template for small projet. To install the installation tintin, you must use `composer` (PHP package manager) like this.

```bash
composer require bowphp/tintin
```

Documentation is available in [english](./docs/en.md) and [frensh](./docs/fr.md).

#### Author

**Franck DAKIA** is a Full Stack developer currently based in Africa, Ivory Coast, Abidjan. Passionate about code, and collaborative development, Speaker, Trainer and Member of several communities of developers.

Contact: [dakiafranck@gmail.com](mailto:dakiafranck@gmail.com) - [@franck_dakia](https://twitter.com/franck_dakia)

**Please, if there is a bug on the project please contact me by email or leave me a message on the [slack](https://bowphp.slack.com).**

Commit message:

add editor support in docs

readme.md, after:

<h1 align="center">
    <img src="https://github.com/bowphp/arts/raw/master/tintin.jpeg" width="100px" style="border-radius: 50px">
    <br/><strong>Tintin</strong>
</h1>

<p align="center">THE VERY SMALL PHP TEMPLATE</p>
<p align="center">
    <a href="https://github.com/bowphp/docs/blog/master/tintin.md" title="docs"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-read%20docs-blue.svg?style=flat-square"/></a>
    <a href="https://packagist.org/packages/bowphp/tintin" title="version"><img src="https://img.shields.io/packagist/v/bowphp/tintin.svg?style=flat-square"/></a>
    <a href="https://github.com/bowphp/tintin/blob/master/LICENSE" title="license"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/license/mashape/apistatus.svg?style=flat-square"/></a>
    <a href="https://travis-ci.org/bowphp/tintin" title="Travis branch"><img src="https://img.shields.io/travis/bowphp/tintin/master.svg?style=flat-square"/></a>
</p>

It's a very simplicity php template for small projet. To install the installation tintin, you must use `composer` (PHP package manager) like this.

```bash
composer require bowphp/tintin
```

Documentation is available in [english](./docs/en.md) and [frensh](./docs/fr.md).

#### Sublime Text Support

How to install Sublime Package Control

- Search for **Bow Tintin** and install it / Download or clone this repository into [install-dir]/Packages/bow-tintin
- Restart Sublime Text.
- Reopen any `.tintin` or `.tintin.php` files.
- Enjoy :smile:

#### Author

**Franck DAKIA** is a Full Stack developer currently based in Africa, Ivory Coast, Abidjan. Passionate about code, and collaborative development, Speaker, Trainer and Member of several communities of developers.

Contact: [dakiafranck@gmail.com](mailto:dakiafranck@gmail.com) - [@franck_dakia](https://twitter.com/franck_dakia)

**Please, if there is a bug on the project please contact me by email or leave me a message on the [slack](https://bowphp.slack.com).**
